ngredients

For The Churma
1 cup coarse whole wheat flour (jada gehun ka atta)
1/4 cup semolina (rava)
4 tbsp melted ghee
2 tbsp almond (badam) slivers
1/4 tsp cardamom (elaichi) powder
5 tbsp powdered sugar
ghee for deep-frying

For The Dal
5 tbsp chana dal (split bengal gram)
5 tbsp toovar (arhar) dal
5 tbsp green moong dal (split green gram)
1 tbsp urad dal (split black lentils)
salt to taste
3 tbsp ghee
3 cloves (laung / lavang)
2 bayleaves (tejpatta)
1 tsp cumin seeds (jeera)
2 green chillies , slit green chillies
a pinch of asafoetida (hing)
1 tsp garlic (lehsun) paste
1 cup finely chopped onions
1 cup finely chopped tomatoes
1 tsp coriander (dhania) powder
1/2 tsp turmeric powder (haldi)
1 tbsp chilli powder
1/2 tsp garam masala
1 tbsp finely chopped coriander (dhania)

For The Baatis
1 cup coarse whole wheat flour (jada gehun ka atta)
1/2 cup semolina (rava)
2 tbsp besan (bengal gram flour)
1/2 cup milk
4 tbsp melted ghee
1 tsp fennel (saunf) seeds
1/4 tsp carom seeds (ajwain)
salt to taste
ghee for deep-frying

For The Topping
4 tbsp melted ghee
8 tbsp finely chopped onions
2 tsp lemon juice
Method
For the churma

    1. Combine the whole wheat flour, semolina and melted ghee in a deep bowl and mix well. Add approx. ¼ cup of water and knead well to make a stiff dough.
    2. Divide the dough into 8 equal portions.
    3. Shape each dough portion in the shape of your fist and press with your fingers in the centre of each portion to make an indentation (as shown in the images 1 to 3).
    4. Heat the ghee in a deep non-stick kadhai and deep-fry, a few dough portions at a time on a slow flame, till they are golden brown in colour from all the sides. These will take a long time to fry as the insides also need to be cooked.
    5. Drain on an absorbent paper and allow them to cool.
    6. Grind the fried dough pieces in a blender into a fine powder.
    7. Add the almonds, cardamom powder and powdered sugar and mix well. Keep aside.


For the dal

    Clean and wash the dals. Combine the dals, salt and 4 cups of water in a pressure cooker, mix well and pressure cook for 3 whistles.
    Allow the steam to escape before opening the lid. Do not drain the water and keep aside.
    Heat the ghee in a deep non-stick kadhai, add the cloves, bayleaves, cumin seeds, green chillies and asafoetida and sauté on a medium flame for a few seconds.
    When the seeds crackle, add the garlic paste and onions and sauté on a medium flame for 2 to 3 minutes.
    Add the tomatoes, coriander powder, turmeric powder, chilli powder and garam masala, mix well and cook on a medium flame for 2 minutes, while stirring occasionally.
    Add the cooked dals and little salt, mix well and cook on a medium flame for 2 to 3 minutes, while stirring occasionally.
    Add the coriander and mix well. Keep aside.


For the baatis

    Combine all the ingredients in a deep bowl and knead into a semi-stiff dough, without using any water.
    Divide the dough into 8 equal portions and shape each portion into an even sized round.
    Flatten the rounds, make a small indentation in the centre of the baatis using your thumb. Keep aside.
    Boil enough water in a deep non-stick kadhai, add all the baatis into the boiling water and cook on a high flame for 15 minutes, while turning them occasionally. Drain and allow it to cool completely.
    Heat the ghee in a deep non-stick kadhai, add 4 baatis at a time and deep-fry till they turn golden brown in colour from all the sides.
    Repeat step 7 to deep-fry the remaining 4 baatis in one more batch. Drain on an absorbent paper and keep aside.


How to serve

    Warm the dal again till piping hot.
    Arrange 2 baatis on a serving dish, break them into pieces and pour 1 tbsp melted ghee evenly over it. Pour 1/4th of the dal evenly over it. Sprinkle 2 tbsp chopped onions and ½ tsp lemon juice evenly over it.
    Repeat step 2 to make 3 more servings.
    Serve immediately with churma.

